README.md, before:

# chartjs-plugin-annotation.js

[![CDNJS version](https://img.shields.io/cdnjs/v/chartjs-plugin-annotation.svg)](https://cdnjs.com/libraries/chartjs-plugin-annotation)

An annotation plugin for Chart.js >= 3.0.0

For Chart.js 2.4.0 to 2.9.x support, use [version 0.5.7 of this plugin](https://github.com/chartjs/chartjs-plugin-annotation/releases/tag/v0.5.7)

This plugin draws lines, boxes, points and ellipses on the chart area.

Annotations work with line, bar, scatter and bubble charts that use linear, logarithmic, time, or category scales. Annotations will not work on any chart that does not have exactly two axes, including pie, radar, and polar area charts.

![Example Screenshot from Dropbox](https://www.dropbox.com/s/92cmt8zrth55z55/Screenshot%202017-05-20%2018.26.39.png?raw=1)

[View this example on CodePen](https://codepen.io/compwright/full/mmQMrZ/)

## Configuration

To configure the annotations plugin, you can simply add new config options to your chart config.

```javascript
{
    plugins: {
        annotation: {
            // Defines when the annotations are drawn.
            // This allows positioning of the annotation relative to the other
            // elements of the graph.
            //
            // Should be one of: afterDraw, afterDatasetsDraw, beforeDraw, beforeDatasetsDraw
            // See http://www.chartjs.org/docs/#advanced-usage-creating-plugins
            drawTime: 'afterDatasetsDraw', // (default)

            // Double-click speed in ms used to distinguish single-clicks from
            // double-clicks whenever you need to capture both. When listening for
            // both click and dblclick, click events will be delayed by this
            // amount.
            dblClickSpeed: 350, // ms (default)

            // Fires when an annotation is hovered.
            enter: function(context) {
                // context: {chart, element}
            },

            // Array of annotation configuration objects
            // or Object with the annotation configuration objects, one for each key
            // See below for detailed descriptions of the annotation options
            annotations: [{
                drawTime: 'afterDraw', // overrides annotation.drawTime if set
                display: true,
                type: 'line',
                scaleID: 'y',
                value: '25',
                borderColor: 'red',
                borderWidth: 2,

                // Event hooks can be defined per annotation (`click` below) or
                // at chart level (`enter` above). If defined in both places,
                // the one defined per annotation takes precedence.

                // Fires when the user clicks this annotation on the chart
                click: function(context) {
                   // context: {chart, element}
                }
            }]
        }
    }
}
```

### Line Annotations

```javascript
{
    type: 'line',

    // If true, display the annotation, default is true.
    // A callback can also be used:
    //   display(context) {
    //     // context: {chart, element}
    //     return true;
    //   },
    display: true,

    // optional drawTime to control layering, overrides global drawTime setting.
    drawTime: 'afterDatasetsDraw',

    // ID of the scale to bind onto.
    scaleID: 'y',

    // Data value to draw the line at.
    value: 25,

    // Optional value at which the line draw should end.
    endValue: 26,

    // Alternative configuration of values, using two scales.
    xScaleID: 'x',
    yScaleID: 'y',
    xMin: 'January',
    yMin: 25,
    xMax: 'February',
    yMax: 26,

    // Line color, default is 'options.color'.
    borderColor: 'red',

    // Line width, default is 2.
    borderWidth: 2,

    // Line dash, default is [].
    // https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/CanvasRenderingContext2D/setLineDash
    borderDash: [2, 2],

    // Line Dash Offset, default is 0.
    // https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/CanvasRenderingContext2D/lineDashOffset
    borderDashOffset: 5,

    label: {
        // Background color of label, default is 'rgba(0,0,0,0.8)'.
        backgroundColor: 'rgba(0,0,0,0.8)',

        // optional drawTime to control labels' layering; defaults to this element's drawTime.
        drawTime: 'afterDatasetsDraw',

        font: {
            // Font family of text, inherits from global
            family: "sans-serif",

            // Font size of text, inherits from global
            size: 12,

            // Font style of text, default is 'bold'
            style: "bold",
        },

        // Color of label text, default is '#fff'.
        color: '#fff',

        // Padding of label to add left/right, default is 6.
        xPadding: 6,

        // Padding of label to add top/bottom, default is 6.
        yPadding: 6,

        // Radius of label rectangle, default is 6.
        cornerRadius: 6,

        // Anchor position of label on line, can be one of: 'start', 'center', 'end', default is 'center'.
        position: 'center',

        // Adjustment along x-axis (left-right) of label relative to above number (can be negative)
        // Negative values move the label left, positive right, default is 0.
        xAdjust: 0,

        // Adjustment along y-axis (top-bottom) of label, in pixels. (can be negative)
        // Negative values move the label up, positive down, default is 0.
        yAdjust: 0,

        // Whether the label is enabled and should be displayed, default is false.
        enabled: true,

        // Text to display in label - default is null. Provide an array to display values on a new line.
        content: "Test label",

        // Rotation of label, in degrees, or 'auto' to use the degrees of the line, default is 0.
        rotation: 90,
    },

    // Event hooks - context: {chart, element}
    enter: function(context) {},
    leave: function(context) {},
    click: function(context) {},
    dblclick: function(context) {}
}
```

### Box Annotations

Box annotations are supported. If one of the axes is not specified, the box will take the entire chart dimension.

The 4 coordinates, xMin, xMax, yMin, yMax are optional. If not specified, the box is expanded out to the edges

```javascript
{
    type: 'box',

    // If true, display the annotation, default is true.
    // A callback can also be used:
    //   display(context) {
    //     // context: {chart, element}
    //     return true;
    //   },
    display: true,

    // optional drawTime to control layering, overrides global drawTime setting.
    drawTime: 'beforeDatasetsDraw',

    // ID of the X scale to bind onto, default is 'x'.
    xScaleID: 'x',

    // ID of the Y scale to bind onto, default is 'y'.
    yScaleID: 'y',

    // Left edge of the box. in units along the x axis.
    xMin: 25,

    // Right edge of the box
    xMax: 40,

    // Top edge of the box in units along the y axis.
    yMax: 20,

    // Bottom edge of the box.
    yMin:  15,

    // Stroke color, default is 'options.color'.
    borderColor: 'red',

    // Stroke width, default is 1.
    borderWidth: 2,

    // Fill color, default is 'options.color'.
    backgroundColor: 'green',

    // Radius of box rectangle, default is 0.
    cornerRadius: 0,

    // Event hooks - context: {chart, element}
    enter: function(context) {},
    leave: function(context) {},
    click: function(context) {},
    dblclick: function(context) {}
}
```

### Ellipse Annotations

Ellipse annotations are supported. If one of the axes is not specified, the ellipse will take the entire chart dimension.

The 4 coordinates, xMin, xMax, yMin, yMax are optional. If not specified, the ellipse is expanded out to the edges

```javascript
{
    type: 'ellipse',

    // If true, display the annotation, default is true.
    // A callback can also be used:
    //   display(context) {
    //     // context: {chart, element}
    //     return true;
    //   },
    display: true,
    
    // optional drawTime to control layering, overrides global drawTime setting.
    drawTime: 'beforeDatasetsDraw',

    // ID of the X scale to bind onto, default is 'x'.
    xScaleID: 'x',

    // ID of the Y scale to bind onto, default is 'y'.
    yScaleID: 'y',

    // Left edge of the box in units along the x axis.
    xMin: 25,

    // Right edge of the box.
    xMax: 40,

    // Top edge of the box in units along the y axis.
    yMax: 20,

    // Bottom edge of the box.
    yMin:  15,

    // Stroke color, default is 'options.color'.
    borderColor: 'red',

    // Stroke width, default is 1.
    borderWidth: 2,

    // Fill color, default is 'options.color'.
    backgroundColor: 'green',

    // Event hooks - context: {chart, element}
    enter: function(context) {},
    leave: function(context) {},
    click: function(context) {},
    dblclick: function(context) {}
}
```

### Point Annotations

Point annotations are supported. If one of the axes is not specified, the point will take the entire chart dimension.

The 2 coordinates, xValue, yValue are optional. If not specified, the point is expanded out to the edges

```javascript
{
    type: 'point',
    
    // If true, display the annotation, default is true.
    // A callback can also be used:
    //   display(context) {
    //     // context: {chart, element}
    //     return true;
    //   },
    display: true,

    // optional drawTime to control layering, overrides global drawTime setting.
    drawTime: 'beforeDatasetsDraw',

    // ID of the X scale to bind onto, default is 'x'.
    xScaleID: 'x',

    // ID of the Y scale to bind onto, default is 'y'.
    yScaleID: 'y',

    // Center point X value of the point. in units along the x axis.
    xValue: 25,

    // Center point Y value of the point. in units along the y axis.
    yValue: 20,

    // Stroke color, default is 'options.color'.
    borderColor: 'red',

    // Stroke width, default is 1.
    borderWidth: 2,

    // Radius of the point, default is '10'.
    radius: 10,

    // Fill color
    backgroundColor: 'green', default is 'options.color'.

    // Event hooks - context: {chart, element}
    enter: function(context) {},
    leave: function(context) {},
    click: function(context) {},
    dblclick: function(context) {}
}
```

## To-do Items

The following features still need to be done:

* Box annotation labels
* Text annotations

## Installation

To download a zip, go to the Chart.Annotation.js on Github

To install via npm:

```bash
npm install chartjs-plugin-annotation --save
```

Prior to v0.2.0 this plugin was known as Chart.Annotation.js. You can still install this old version via NPM.

## Documentation

You can find documentation for Chart.js at [www.chartjs.org/docs](http://www.chartjs.org/docs).

## Contributing

Before submitting an issue or a pull request to the project, please take a moment to look over the [contributing guidelines](CONTRIBUTING.md) first.

## License

Chart.Annotation.js is available under the [MIT license](http://opensource.org/licenses/MIT).

Commit message:

first change to have a look how it will appear

README.md, after:

# chartjs-plugin-annotation.js

[![CDNJS version](https://img.shields.io/cdnjs/v/chartjs-plugin-annotation.svg)](https://cdnjs.com/libraries/chartjs-plugin-annotation)

An annotation plugin for Chart.js >= 3.0.0

For Chart.js 2.4.0 to 2.9.x support, use [version 0.5.7 of this plugin](https://github.com/chartjs/chartjs-plugin-annotation/releases/tag/v0.5.7)

This plugin draws lines, boxes, points and ellipses on the chart area.

Annotations work with line, bar, scatter and bubble charts that use linear, logarithmic, time, or category scales. Annotations will not work on any chart that does not have exactly two axes, including pie, radar, and polar area charts.

![Example Screenshot from Dropbox](https://www.dropbox.com/s/92cmt8zrth55z55/Screenshot%202017-05-20%2018.26.39.png?raw=1)

[View this example on CodePen](https://codepen.io/compwright/full/mmQMrZ/)

## Configuration

To configure the annotations plugin, you can simply add new config options to your chart config.

```javascript
{
    plugins: {
        annotation: {
            // Defines when the annotations are drawn.
            // This allows positioning of the annotation relative to the other
            // elements of the graph.
            //
            // Should be one of: afterDraw, afterDatasetsDraw, beforeDraw, beforeDatasetsDraw
            // See http://www.chartjs.org/docs/#advanced-usage-creating-plugins
            drawTime: 'afterDatasetsDraw', // (default)

            // Double-click speed in ms used to distinguish single-clicks from
            // double-clicks whenever you need to capture both. When listening for
            // both click and dblclick, click events will be delayed by this
            // amount.
            dblClickSpeed: 350, // ms (default)

            // Fires when an annotation is hovered.
            enter: function(context) {
                // context: {chart, element}
            },

            // Array of annotation configuration objects
            // or Object with the annotation configuration objects, one for each key
            // See below for detailed descriptions of the annotation options
            annotations: [{
                drawTime: 'afterDraw', // overrides annotation.drawTime if set
                display: true,
                type: 'line',
                scaleID: 'y',
                value: '25',
                borderColor: 'red',
                borderWidth: 2,

                // Event hooks can be defined per annotation (`click` below) or
                // at chart level (`enter` above). If defined in both places,
                // the one defined per annotation takes precedence.

                // Fires when the user clicks this annotation on the chart
                click: function(context) {
                   // context: {chart, element}
                }
            }]
        }
    }
}
```

## General options

The following options are configuration which will apply to all annotations elements:

| Name | Type | Default | Description
| ---- | ---- | ------- | -----------
| `drawTime` | `string` | `afterDatasetsDraw` | Defines when the annotations are drawn. This allows positioning of the annotation relative to the other elements of the graph. Should be one of: `afterDraw`, `afterDatasetsDraw`, `beforeDraw`, `beforeDatasetsDraw`.
| `dblClickSpeed` | `number` | `350` |  Double-click speed in milliseconds used to distinguish single-clicks from double-clicks whenever you need to capture both. When listening for both `click` and `dblclick`, click events will be delayed by this amount.
| `enter` | `function` | `null` | Called when the mouse is moved over an annotation.
| `leave` | `function` | `null` | Called when the mouse is moved out of an annotation.
| `click` | `function` | `null` | Called when the mouse's single-click is performed on an annotation.
| `dblclick` | `function` | `null` | Called when the mouse's double-click is performed on an annotation.

### Line Annotations

```javascript
{
    type: 'line',

    // If true, display the annotation, default is true.
    // A callback can also be used:
    //   display(context) {
    //     // context: {chart, element}
    //     return true;
    //   },
    display: true,

    // optional drawTime to control layering, overrides global drawTime setting.
    drawTime: 'afterDatasetsDraw',

    // ID of the scale to bind onto.
    scaleID: 'y',

    // Data value to draw the line at.
    value: 25,

    // Optional value at which the line draw should end.
    endValue: 26,

    // Alternative configuration of values, using two scales.
    xScaleID: 'x',
    yScaleID: 'y',
    xMin: 'January',
    yMin: 25,
    xMax: 'February',
    yMax: 26,

    // Line color, default is 'options.color'.
    borderColor: 'red',

    // Line width, default is 2.
    borderWidth: 2,

    // Line dash, default is [].
    // https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/CanvasRenderingContext2D/setLineDash
    borderDash: [2, 2],

    // Line Dash Offset, default is 0.
    // https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/CanvasRenderingContext2D/lineDashOffset
    borderDashOffset: 5,

    label: {
        // Background color of label, default is 'rgba(0,0,0,0.8)'.
        backgroundColor: 'rgba(0,0,0,0.8)',

        // optional drawTime to control labels' layering; defaults to this element's drawTime.
        drawTime: 'afterDatasetsDraw',

        font: {
            // Font family of text, inherits from global
            family: "sans-serif",

            // Font size of text, inherits from global
            size: 12,

            // Font style of text, default is 'bold'
            style: "bold",
        },

        // Color of label text, default is '#fff'.
        color: '#fff',

        // Padding of label to add left/right, default is 6.
        xPadding: 6,

        // Padding of label to add top/bottom, default is 6.
        yPadding: 6,

        // Radius of label rectangle, default is 6.
        cornerRadius: 6,

        // Anchor position of label on line, can be one of: 'start', 'center', 'end', default is 'center'.
        position: 'center',

        // Adjustment along x-axis (left-right) of label relative to above number (can be negative)
        // Negative values move the label left, positive right, default is 0.
        xAdjust: 0,

        // Adjustment along y-axis (top-bottom) of label, in pixels. (can be negative)
        // Negative values move the label up, positive down, default is 0.
        yAdjust: 0,

        // Whether the label is enabled and should be displayed, default is false.
        enabled: true,

        // Text to display in label - default is null. Provide an array to display values on a new line.
        content: "Test label",

        // Rotation of label, in degrees, or 'auto' to use the degrees of the line, default is 0.
        rotation: 90,
    },

    // Event hooks - context: {chart, element}
    enter: function(context) {},
    leave: function(context) {},
    click: function(context) {},
    dblclick: function(context) {}
}
```

### Box Annotations

Box annotations are supported. If one of the axes is not specified, the box will take the entire chart dimension.

The 4 coordinates, xMin, xMax, yMin, yMax are optional. If not specified, the box is expanded out to the edges

```javascript
{
    type: 'box',

    // If true, display the annotation, default is true.
    // A callback can also be used:
    //   display(context) {
    //     // context: {chart, element}
    //     return true;
    //   },
    display: true,

    // optional drawTime to control layering, overrides global drawTime setting.
    drawTime: 'beforeDatasetsDraw',

    // ID of the X scale to bind onto, default is 'x'.
    xScaleID: 'x',

    // ID of the Y scale to bind onto, default is 'y'.
    yScaleID: 'y',

    // Left edge of the box. in units along the x axis.
    xMin: 25,

    // Right edge of the box
    xMax: 40,

    // Top edge of the box in units along the y axis.
    yMax: 20,

    // Bottom edge of the box.
    yMin:  15,

    // Stroke color, default is 'options.color'.
    borderColor: 'red',

    // Stroke width, default is 1.
    borderWidth: 2,

    // Fill color, default is 'options.color'.
    backgroundColor: 'green',

    // Radius of box rectangle, default is 0.
    cornerRadius: 0,

    // Event hooks - context: {chart, element}
    enter: function(context) {},
    leave: function(context) {},
    click: function(context) {},
    dblclick: function(context) {}
}
```

### Ellipse Annotations

Ellipse annotations are supported. If one of the axes is not specified, the ellipse will take the entire chart dimension.

The 4 coordinates, xMin, xMax, yMin, yMax are optional. If not specified, the ellipse is expanded out to the edges

```javascript
{
    type: 'ellipse',

    // If true, display the annotation, default is true.
    // A callback can also be used:
    //   display(context) {
    //     // context: {chart, element}
    //     return true;
    //   },
    display: true,
    
    // optional drawTime to control layering, overrides global drawTime setting.
    drawTime: 'beforeDatasetsDraw',

    // ID of the X scale to bind onto, default is 'x'.
    xScaleID: 'x',

    // ID of the Y scale to bind onto, default is 'y'.
    yScaleID: 'y',

    // Left edge of the box in units along the x axis.
    xMin: 25,

    // Right edge of the box.
    xMax: 40,

    // Top edge of the box in units along the y axis.
    yMax: 20,

    // Bottom edge of the box.
    yMin:  15,

    // Stroke color, default is 'options.color'.
    borderColor: 'red',

    // Stroke width, default is 1.
    borderWidth: 2,

    // Fill color, default is 'options.color'.
    backgroundColor: 'green',

    // Event hooks - context: {chart, element}
    enter: function(context) {},
    leave: function(context) {},
    click: function(context) {},
    dblclick: function(context) {}
}
```

### Point Annotations

Point annotations are supported. If one of the axes is not specified, the point will take the entire chart dimension.

The 2 coordinates, xValue, yValue are optional. If not specified, the point is expanded out to the edges

```javascript
{
    type: 'point',
    
    // If true, display the annotation, default is true.
    // A callback can also be used:
    //   display(context) {
    //     // context: {chart, element}
    //     return true;
    //   },
    display: true,

    // optional drawTime to control layering, overrides global drawTime setting.
    drawTime: 'beforeDatasetsDraw',

    // ID of the X scale to bind onto, default is 'x'.
    xScaleID: 'x',

    // ID of the Y scale to bind onto, default is 'y'.
    yScaleID: 'y',

    // Center point X value of the point. in units along the x axis.
    xValue: 25,

    // Center point Y value of the point. in units along the y axis.
    yValue: 20,

    // Stroke color, default is 'options.color'.
    borderColor: 'red',

    // Stroke width, default is 1.
    borderWidth: 2,

    // Radius of the point, default is '10'.
    radius: 10,

    // Fill color
    backgroundColor: 'green', default is 'options.color'.

    // Event hooks - context: {chart, element}
    enter: function(context) {},
    leave: function(context) {},
    click: function(context) {},
    dblclick: function(context) {}
}
```

## To-do Items

The following features still need to be done:

* Box annotation labels
* Text annotations

## Installation

To download a zip, go to the Chart.Annotation.js on Github

To install via npm:

```bash
npm install chartjs-plugin-annotation --save
```

Prior to v0.2.0 this plugin was known as Chart.Annotation.js. You can still install this old version via NPM.

## Documentation

You can find documentation for Chart.js at [www.chartjs.org/docs](http://www.chartjs.org/docs).

## Contributing

Before submitting an issue or a pull request to the project, please take a moment to look over the [contributing guidelines](CONTRIBUTING.md) first.

## License

Chart.Annotation.js is available under the [MIT license](http://opensource.org/licenses/MIT).
